Okay. So now that we've downloaded and installed the command line tools
and the c++ compiler,
we're now going to install the CodeLite integrated development environment.
And CodeLite
is an open source free cross-platform integrated development
environment. It works with c, c++ PHP and JavaScript.
We're only going to use the c++ side of it.
It runs on OS 10 windows and Linux.
So once you learn it on one platform, it's really easy to use it on others.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go to the website for CodeLite.
And you can see I've already got a browser open and I've typed in CodeLite.org
that c-o-d-e-l-i-t-e.org.
And you're going to get a website. And as I've said before,
websites change over time.
What we're going to be looking for is a download link.
Now at the time of this recording
CodeLite 14.0.0 was just released.
So this is the latest and greatest, and that's what I'm going to install right now.
So I'm going to look for a download link. You can see obviously this big green box right here.
You can always go to the downloads as well. So I'm just going to click this,
and that's going to take me to a page
where i can donate to the developer if I choose to.
I'm just going to select the download link right here.
And we're looking for the OS 10 version. You can see it's the third one down here.
CodeLite 14.0 app bundle for OS 10
10.15 which is Catalina.
I'm going to select that,
and that'll start the download.
Now I've already done it before so you can see that I'm doing it right here. So I'm just going to
cancel that download because I've already done it.
And I'm going to come up here to my downloads link.
And you could see
right there. Now you can see that it's downloaded as
a .tar.gz file now.If you're not familiar with that
the gc just means it's compressed
and the tar means that it's an archive.
So it's really very, very similar to a zip file
if you're familiar with that. So what we need to do is we need to decompress it
and untar it.
Sounds complicated all you need to do is double click on it.
So I'm going to show it in finder,
and you could see right here is the file.
So all I'm going to do here is double click on it.
Okay. That's really it. And you can see the CodeLite application is now good to go.
You can see the icon.
Don't worry about this file down here that's just the recording file that I'm using.
So all we need to do now is grab that
and drag it into our applications folder here. So I'm going to select it
and just drag it down to my applications.
And that's it. It's now installed.
Now we just need to run it.
So what I'm going to do to run it is I'm just going to come up here,
I'm going to close my browser and get it out of the way.
I'm just going to come up to go applications
and select CodeLite.
I could also type it into spotlight search, but there's CodeLite right here.
Now if I try to run it,
which I just did,
you sometimes will get this message
CodeLite cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified.
This is pretty normal. It all depends on what your security settings are like.
So you can move it to the trash or you can cancel.
Well, I don't want to do either. I don't want to throw it away, and I don't want to cancel,
but what I do want to do is run it.
So what you can do is you do cancel here and then come up to your
system preferences.
And let me close this down just to get it out of the way as well.
So you go to your system preferences
and you can come to security and privacy right here.
And I'll just select that
and go to general.
And then you can see right down here it says CodeLite was blocked
from use because it's not from an identified developer.
And what we'll do is we'll just say open anyway.
And at that point it's good to go let me open it. Here we go.
Here we go. Now it's a little bit different. Right now it says open.
So I'm going to click open, and that's going to run CodeLite.
I'm not going to do that right now. I'll do that in the next video,
where we'll configure it to run.
So at this point we've installed the command line tools,
and we've installed CodeLite.
So it's just a matter of getting it all ready to go in the next video we'll configure it,
so we can build the c++ program. I'll see you in the next video.